.beans/cerberus-3q56--checkbox-array-fields-checkuncheck-semantics-for-n.md, before:

---
# cerberus-3q56
title: 'Checkbox array fields: check/uncheck semantics for name[] groups'
status: completed
type: bug
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T21:47:54Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T22:20:18Z
parent: cerberus-zqpu
---

Sources:
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/276
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/269

Problem:
check/uncheck behavior is incorrect for checkbox groups that use array names (e.g. name="items[]"). Reports include crashes and incorrect hidden-input handling.

Repro snippet from upstream:

```html
<input type="checkbox" name="items[]" value="one" />
```

```elixir
uncheck(conn, "Zoom")
```

Expected Cerberus parity checks:
- group checkbox lookup by label remains stable when name ends with []
- uncheck/check payloads match browser submission semantics for multi-select groups
- no hidden-input lookup crashes

## Todo
- [x] Add fixture for grouped checkbox arrays with labels
- [x] Add failing conformance tests for check/uncheck on []-named fields
- [x] Fix query/form-data merge logic for checkbox arrays
- [x] Validate static/live/browser parity with browser-oracle harness

## Summary of Changes
- Implemented `check/3` and `uncheck/3` end-to-end in Cerberus public API, assertion dispatch, option validation, and driver behaviour callbacks.
- Added checkbox field metadata (`input_type`, `input_value`, `input_checked`) to HTML field resolution so drivers can validate checkbox-only operations safely.
- Added static/live/browser driver implementations for checkbox toggling and made array-name (`name[]`) value merging robust for hidden-input + checkbox combinations.
- Updated GET submit query encoding in static/live drivers to support list values in params without crashes.
- Added new fixture coverage for checkbox arrays:
  - Static route: `/checkbox-array` and `/checkbox-array/result`.
  - Live route: `/live/checkbox-array`.
- Added cross-driver conformance harness tests in `test/core/checkbox_array_conformance_test.exs` for both `check` and `uncheck` flows across `:live/:browser` and `:static/:browser` matrices.
- Added public API tests for check/uncheck label shorthand and explicit locator validation.

Commit message:

beans: add triage notes for phoenix_test mined issues

.beans/cerberus-3q56--checkbox-array-fields-checkuncheck-semantics-for-n.md, after:

---
# cerberus-3q56
title: 'Checkbox array fields: check/uncheck semantics for name[] groups'
status: completed
type: bug
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T21:47:54Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T22:35:41Z
parent: cerberus-zqpu
---

Sources:
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/276
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/269

Problem:
check/uncheck behavior is incorrect for checkbox groups that use array names (e.g. name="items[]"). Reports include crashes and incorrect hidden-input handling.

Repro snippet from upstream:

```html
<input type="checkbox" name="items[]" value="one" />
```

```elixir
uncheck(conn, "Zoom")
```

Expected Cerberus parity checks:
- group checkbox lookup by label remains stable when name ends with []
- uncheck/check payloads match browser submission semantics for multi-select groups
- no hidden-input lookup crashes

## Todo
- [x] Add fixture for grouped checkbox arrays with labels
- [x] Add failing conformance tests for check/uncheck on []-named fields
- [x] Fix query/form-data merge logic for checkbox arrays
- [x] Validate static/live/browser parity with browser-oracle harness

## Summary of Changes
- Implemented `check/3` and `uncheck/3` end-to-end in Cerberus public API, assertion dispatch, option validation, and driver behaviour callbacks.
- Added checkbox field metadata (`input_type`, `input_value`, `input_checked`) to HTML field resolution so drivers can validate checkbox-only operations safely.
- Added static/live/browser driver implementations for checkbox toggling and made array-name (`name[]`) value merging robust for hidden-input + checkbox combinations.
- Updated GET submit query encoding in static/live drivers to support list values in params without crashes.
- Added new fixture coverage for checkbox arrays:
  - Static route: `/checkbox-array` and `/checkbox-array/result`.
  - Live route: `/live/checkbox-array`.
- Added cross-driver conformance harness tests in `test/core/checkbox_array_conformance_test.exs` for both `check` and `uncheck` flows across `:live/:browser` and `:static/:browser` matrices.
- Added public API tests for check/uncheck label shorthand and explicit locator validation.

## Triage Note
This candidate comes from an upstream phoenix_test issue or PR and may already work in Cerberus.
If current Cerberus behavior already matches the expected semantics, add or keep the conformance test coverage and close this bean as done (no behavior change required).
