.beans/cerberus-55qd--add-browser-migration-verification-lane-for-phoeni.md, before:

---
# cerberus-55qd
title: Add browser migration verification lane for PhoenixTest.Playwright rows
status: in-progress
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-28T18:02:12Z
updated_at: 2026-03-02T06:48:48Z
parent: cerberus-it5x
---

MigrationVerification currently runs only phoenix_test -> cerberus non-browser mode. Matrix Playwright rows (ptpw_*) cannot be executed end-to-end because browser lane and migration mapping for use PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case are not in place.\n\nScope:\n- Extend migration verification to support browser pre/post lane for selected rows.\n- Define migration handling for PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case/module usage so post-migration tests compile/run against Cerberus browser APIs.\n- Add deterministic CI strategy for browser migration rows.\n\nAcceptance:\n- At least one ptpw row (ptpw_screenshot) runs pre and post migration in CI or a dedicated browser job.\n- Matrix browser rows can be incrementally unblocked.

## Progress Update

- Added Cerberus.Playwright.Case case template so rewritten use PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case modules compile and run against browser sessions after migration.
- Added migration fixture row ptpw_screenshot using Playwright case pipeline and screenshot artifact assertion.
- Updated fixture test helper to set cerberus base URL for browser session startup.
- Expanded migration verification sample-suite glob from pt_ to pt* so ptpw rows are included in pre/post runs.
- Verified with mix test test/mix/tasks/igniter_cerberus_migrate_phoenix_test_test.exs and mix precommit.

## Notes

- The ptpw screenshot row will skip unless Playwright node assets are installed in the fixture app.
- This lays the compile and execution foundation, but a dedicated browser lane is still needed to guarantee non-skipped ptpw execution in CI.

## Progress Update 2

- Added a dedicated browser-tagged migration test that runs the ptpw_screenshot row pre and post migration.
- Added environment knobs for dedicated browser jobs:
  - CERBERUS_INSTALL_PLAYWRIGHT_ASSETS=true installs Playwright node assets in the copied fixture.
  - CERBERUS_REQUIRE_PLAYWRIGHT_EXECUTION=true fails the test when the Playwright row is skipped.
- Updated migration verification docs to describe these browser-lane controls.

Commit message:

Remove Playwright migration scope from migration loop

.beans/cerberus-55qd--add-browser-migration-verification-lane-for-phoeni.md, after:

---
# cerberus-55qd
title: Add browser migration verification lane for PhoenixTest.Playwright rows
status: scrapped
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-28T18:02:12Z
updated_at: 2026-03-02T06:56:04Z
parent: cerberus-it5x
---

MigrationVerification currently runs only phoenix_test -> cerberus non-browser mode. Matrix Playwright rows (ptpw_*) cannot be executed end-to-end because browser lane and migration mapping for use PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case are not in place.\n\nScope:\n- Extend migration verification to support browser pre/post lane for selected rows.\n- Define migration handling for PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case/module usage so post-migration tests compile/run against Cerberus browser APIs.\n- Add deterministic CI strategy for browser migration rows.\n\nAcceptance:\n- At least one ptpw row (ptpw_screenshot) runs pre and post migration in CI or a dedicated browser job.\n- Matrix browser rows can be incrementally unblocked.

## Progress Update

- Added Cerberus.Playwright.Case case template so rewritten use PhoenixTest.Playwright.Case modules compile and run against browser sessions after migration.
- Added migration fixture row ptpw_screenshot using Playwright case pipeline and screenshot artifact assertion.
- Updated fixture test helper to set cerberus base URL for browser session startup.
- Expanded migration verification sample-suite glob from pt_ to pt* so ptpw rows are included in pre/post runs.
- Verified with mix test test/mix/tasks/igniter_cerberus_migrate_phoenix_test_test.exs and mix precommit.

## Notes

- The ptpw screenshot row will skip unless Playwright node assets are installed in the fixture app.
- This lays the compile and execution foundation, but a dedicated browser lane is still needed to guarantee non-skipped ptpw execution in CI.

## Progress Update 2

- Added a dedicated browser-tagged migration test that runs the ptpw_screenshot row pre and post migration.
- Added environment knobs for dedicated browser jobs:
  - CERBERUS_INSTALL_PLAYWRIGHT_ASSETS=true installs Playwright node assets in the copied fixture.
  - CERBERUS_REQUIRE_PLAYWRIGHT_EXECUTION=true fails the test when the Playwright row is skipped.
- Updated migration verification docs to describe these browser-lane controls.

## Reasons for Scrapping

- Scope decision changed: Playwright migration is explicitly excluded for now.
- This bean aimed to add browser migration rows and CI lane support for Playwright APIs, which is now out of scope.
- Follow-up is handled by a new bean that removes Playwright migration rows and related migration code paths.
