.beans/cerberus-5b0k--auto-detect-staticlive-and-auto-switch-across-navi.md, before:

---
# cerberus-5b0k
title: Auto-detect static/live and auto-switch across navigation; browser opt-in sticky
status: in-progress
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T08:07:23Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T14:59:02Z
parent: cerberus-sfku
---

## Scope
Add PhoenixTest-style automatic static/live driver detection and automatic driver switching on `visit/click/redirect` transitions.

## Behavior
- Default mode should be `:auto` (no manual driver selection required for static/live paths).
- Runtime should detect whether the current page target is static or LiveView and route operations to the correct driver.
- On navigation transitions, driver should switch automatically (static -> live, live -> static) while preserving session semantics.
- Browser mode remains explicit opt-in (`session(:browser, ...)` or equivalent) and is sticky: once in browser mode, no automatic fallback to static/live.

## Design Notes
- Keep selector/query semantics identical regardless of automatic switching.
- Emit diagnostics that include previous driver, next driver, and transition reason (`visit`, `click`, `redirect`, `live_redirect`).
- Keep harness compatibility: same scenario should still run against `:auto`, explicit `:live`, explicit `:static`, and explicit `:browser` where applicable.

## Tests
- [x] `session(:auto)` starts static for static route and switches to live when navigating to live route.
- [x] `session(:auto)` starts live for live route and switches to static when navigating to static route.
- [ ] redirect and live_redirect transitions update both `current_path` and active driver.
- [ ] explicit browser sessions do not auto-switch back to static/live.
- [ ] failure output includes transition diagnostics in common shape.

## Done When
- [x] API docs show no-manual-selection happy path for static/live.
- [x] conformance harness supports `@tag drivers: [:auto, :browser]` style selection.
- [x] cross-driver behavior remains deterministic for fixture scenarios.

## Notes (2026-02-27)

- Keep one harness runner (`Cerberus.Harness`) and gate scenarios via driver tags, rather than splitting harness implementations.
- Reuse shared fixture markup primitives for baseline assertions so static/live/browser validate the same DOM contract.
- Keep live-only behavior coverage as extension scenarios (subset driver matrix), while baseline scenarios stay cross-driver.

## Reasons for Scrapping

Explicit driver matrices are preferred over automatic static/live switching. We will keep driver choice explicit in tests and split conformance suites into static+browser and live+browser groups instead of introducing :auto mode.

## Reopened (2026-02-27)

Reopened per product direction: non-browser execution should mirror PhoenixTest behavior by auto-detecting static vs live on first visit and re-evaluating mode after each interaction/navigation transition.

## Progress (2026-02-27, session model refactor)

- Moved to driver-owned session structs (`Cerberus.Driver.Static/Live/Browser`) and removed the `driver_state` wrapper layer.
- Removed unused `meta` fields from session structs.
- Kept only actively used runtime fields in each driver struct.
- Added `test/core/auto_mode_test.exs` for static->live and live->static switching in `:auto` mode.
- Updated README/docs to describe `:auto` as default non-browser behavior and note explicit `:static/:live` modes.
- Verified focused non-browser test slices pass; full `--exclude browser` run still has existing browser parity failures in owner-form/search flows.

## Progress (2026-02-27, browser parity follow-up)

- Fixed cross-driver parity failures in owner-form/search scenarios by ensuring fixture pages merge query-string params via `Plug.Conn.fetch_query_params/1` before rendering echoed values.
- Browser assertions now pass consistently on submitted/redirected GET forms.
- Verified with full `mix test` run: 45 tests, 0 failures.

Commit message:

Complete bean 5b0k auto mode switching work

.beans/cerberus-5b0k--auto-detect-staticlive-and-auto-switch-across-navi.md, after:

---
# cerberus-5b0k
title: Auto-detect static/live and auto-switch across navigation; browser opt-in sticky
status: completed
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T08:07:23Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T15:38:36Z
parent: cerberus-sfku
---

## Scope
Add PhoenixTest-style automatic static/live driver detection and automatic driver switching on `visit/click/redirect` transitions.

## Behavior
- Default mode should be `:auto` (no manual driver selection required for static/live paths).
- Runtime should detect whether the current page target is static or LiveView and route operations to the correct driver.
- On navigation transitions, driver should switch automatically (static -> live, live -> static) while preserving session semantics.
- Browser mode remains explicit opt-in (`session(:browser, ...)` or equivalent) and is sticky: once in browser mode, no automatic fallback to static/live.

## Design Notes
- Keep selector/query semantics identical regardless of automatic switching.
- Emit diagnostics that include previous driver, next driver, and transition reason (`visit`, `click`, `redirect`, `live_redirect`).
- Keep harness compatibility: same scenario should still run against `:auto`, explicit `:live`, explicit `:static`, and explicit `:browser` where applicable.

## Tests
- [x] `session(:auto)` starts static for static route and switches to live when navigating to live route.
- [x] `session(:auto)` starts live for live route and switches to static when navigating to static route.
- [x] redirect and live_redirect transitions update both `current_path` and active driver.
- [x] explicit browser sessions do not auto-switch back to static/live.
- [x] failure output includes transition diagnostics in common shape.

## Done When
- [x] API docs show no-manual-selection happy path for static/live.
- [x] conformance harness supports `@tag drivers: [:auto, :browser]` style selection.
- [x] cross-driver behavior remains deterministic for fixture scenarios.

## Notes (2026-02-27)

- Keep one harness runner (`Cerberus.Harness`) and gate scenarios via driver tags, rather than splitting harness implementations.
- Reuse shared fixture markup primitives for baseline assertions so static/live/browser validate the same DOM contract.
- Keep live-only behavior coverage as extension scenarios (subset driver matrix), while baseline scenarios stay cross-driver.

## Reasons for Scrapping

Explicit driver matrices are preferred over automatic static/live switching. We will keep driver choice explicit in tests and split conformance suites into static+browser and live+browser groups instead of introducing :auto mode.

## Reopened (2026-02-27)

Reopened per product direction: non-browser execution should mirror PhoenixTest behavior by auto-detecting static vs live on first visit and re-evaluating mode after each interaction/navigation transition.

## Progress (2026-02-27, session model refactor)

- Moved to driver-owned session structs (`Cerberus.Driver.Static/Live/Browser`) and removed the `driver_state` wrapper layer.
- Removed unused `meta` fields from session structs.
- Kept only actively used runtime fields in each driver struct.
- Added `test/core/auto_mode_test.exs` for static->live and live->static switching in `:auto` mode.
- Updated README/docs to describe `:auto` as default non-browser behavior and note explicit `:static/:live` modes.
- Verified focused non-browser test slices pass; full `--exclude browser` run still has existing browser parity failures in owner-form/search flows.

## Progress (2026-02-27, browser parity follow-up)

- Fixed cross-driver parity failures in owner-form/search scenarios by ensuring fixture pages merge query-string params via `Plug.Conn.fetch_query_params/1` before rendering echoed values.
- Browser assertions now pass consistently on submitted/redirected GET forms.
- Verified with full `mix test` run: 45 tests, 0 failures.

## Summary of Changes

- Added transition diagnostics shape to static/live operation observations and assertion failures (`from_driver`, `to_driver`, `reason`, `from_path`, `to_path`).
- Added auto-mode coverage for `live_redirect` and `redirect` transitions plus browser sticky behavior assertions.
- Updated redirect fixtures and tests to cover both soft live navigation and hard redirect paths.
- Verified behavior with focused suites and full test run (48 tests, 0 failures).
