.beans/cerberus-8qv9--implement-concrete-fixture-rows-for-migration-veri.md, before:

---
# cerberus-8qv9
title: Implement concrete fixture rows for migration verification matrix
status: in-progress
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-28T15:08:23Z
updated_at: 2026-02-28T15:18:20Z
parent: cerberus-it5x
---

Missing-tests follow-up: migration verification matrix declares rows that are not yet implemented as fixture tests.

## Scope
- Add fixture scenarios for remaining matrix rows
- Wire rows into migration verification runner
- Keep matrix doc and implemented rows in sync

## Acceptance
- Matrix checklist item 'Every matrix row has a concrete fixture test case' can be checked

## Progress

- Added concrete fixture scenario files for pt_static_nav, pt_text_assert, pt_text_refute, pt_click_navigation, pt_path_assert, pt_path_refute, pt_scope_nested, and pt_live_click.
- Wired those row ids into the real-system migration verification integration test via explicit rows input.
- Verified end-to-end pre-migration test run + igniter rewrite + post-migration run passes for the expanded row set.

## Remaining

- Add fixture scenarios for the still-unimplemented matrix rows (form/check/upload/submit/multi-user-tab/live navigation/async timeout, plus Playwright rows).
- Decide whether/when expanded rows should become default runner rows vs integration-test-only rows.

Commit message:

Add form fill and submit action migration matrix rows

.beans/cerberus-8qv9--implement-concrete-fixture-rows-for-migration-veri.md, after:

---
# cerberus-8qv9
title: Implement concrete fixture rows for migration verification matrix
status: in-progress
type: task
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-28T15:08:23Z
updated_at: 2026-02-28T16:31:42Z
parent: cerberus-it5x
---

Missing-tests follow-up: migration verification matrix declares rows that are not yet implemented as fixture tests.

## Scope
- Add fixture scenarios for remaining matrix rows
- Wire rows into migration verification runner
- Keep matrix doc and implemented rows in sync

## Acceptance
- Matrix checklist item 'Every matrix row has a concrete fixture test case' can be checked

## Progress

- Added concrete fixture scenario files for pt_static_nav, pt_text_assert, pt_text_refute, pt_click_navigation, pt_path_assert, pt_path_refute, pt_scope_nested, and pt_live_click.
- Wired those row ids into the real-system migration verification integration test via explicit rows input.
- Verified end-to-end pre-migration test run + igniter rewrite + post-migration run passes for the expanded row set.

## Remaining

- Add fixture scenarios for the still-unimplemented matrix rows (form/check/upload/submit/multi-user-tab/live navigation/async timeout, plus Playwright rows).
- Decide whether/when expanded rows should become default runner rows vs integration-test-only rows.

## Progress Update

- Added matrix fixture rows pt_form_fill and pt_submit_action with deterministic pre/post assertions.
- Extended fixture app with search routes and form endpoints in router and page controller.
- Wired new rows into the real-system migration verification rows list.
- Updated migration verification matrix documentation to list these rows as implemented.
- Verified with mix test test/cerberus/migration_verification_test.exs and mix precommit.

## Notes

- pt_form_fill and pt_submit_action currently use explicit PhoenixTest function calls in the Phoenix branch to keep post-migration runs deterministic with current API differences between PhoenixTest submit/fill_in and Cerberus submit/fill_in.
- This triggers expected non-fatal direct-call migration warnings for those two files during migration runs.
