.beans/cerberus-inh8--click-button-fails-on-multiline-data-confirm-attri.md, before:

---
# cerberus-inh8
title: click_button fails on multiline data-confirm attributes
status: completed
type: bug
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T21:48:20Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T22:30:21Z
parent: cerberus-zqpu
---

Sources:
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/205

Problem:
click_button/2 fails when a button has a multiline data-confirm attribute; selector generation/escaping does not match browser DOM/query semantics.

Repro snippet from upstream:

```html
<button data-confirm={"Are you sure?\nMore text"}>
  Create
</button>
```

```elixir
|> click_button("Create")
```

Error reported upstream:
Could not find element with selector "button[data-confirm=\"Are you sure?\\nMore text\"]" and text "Create".

Expected Cerberus parity checks:
- multiline attribute values do not break button lookup
- locator escaping/normalization is robust for newline-containing attributes

## Todo
- [x] Add fixture button with multiline data-confirm
- [x] Add failing click_button conformance tests across drivers
- [x] Fix selector construction/escaping path for multiline attrs
- [x] Validate behavior with browser-oracle harness

## Summary of Changes

- Added a multiline `data-confirm` button case to the live selector-edge fixture.
- Added cross-driver conformance coverage (`:live` + `:browser`) for `click_button/2` with multiline `data-confirm`.
- Hardened CSS attribute escaping in `Cerberus.Driver.Html` to escape control characters (`\n`, `\r`, `\t`, `\f`) as CSS escapes when generating unique selectors.
- Added a focused Html unit test validating newline escaping and selector queryability.
- Validated behavior with targeted harness tests for live/browser parity.

Commit message:

beans: add triage notes for phoenix_test mined issues

.beans/cerberus-inh8--click-button-fails-on-multiline-data-confirm-attri.md, after:

---
# cerberus-inh8
title: click_button fails on multiline data-confirm attributes
status: completed
type: bug
priority: normal
created_at: 2026-02-27T21:48:20Z
updated_at: 2026-02-27T22:35:41Z
parent: cerberus-zqpu
---

Sources:
- https://github.com/germsvel/phoenix_test/issues/205

Problem:
click_button/2 fails when a button has a multiline data-confirm attribute; selector generation/escaping does not match browser DOM/query semantics.

Repro snippet from upstream:

```html
<button data-confirm={"Are you sure?\nMore text"}>
  Create
</button>
```

```elixir
|> click_button("Create")
```

Error reported upstream:
Could not find element with selector "button[data-confirm=\"Are you sure?\\nMore text\"]" and text "Create".

Expected Cerberus parity checks:
- multiline attribute values do not break button lookup
- locator escaping/normalization is robust for newline-containing attributes

## Todo
- [x] Add fixture button with multiline data-confirm
- [x] Add failing click_button conformance tests across drivers
- [x] Fix selector construction/escaping path for multiline attrs
- [x] Validate behavior with browser-oracle harness

## Summary of Changes

- Added a multiline `data-confirm` button case to the live selector-edge fixture.
- Added cross-driver conformance coverage (`:live` + `:browser`) for `click_button/2` with multiline `data-confirm`.
- Hardened CSS attribute escaping in `Cerberus.Driver.Html` to escape control characters (`\n`, `\r`, `\t`, `\f`) as CSS escapes when generating unique selectors.
- Added a focused Html unit test validating newline escaping and selector queryability.
- Validated behavior with targeted harness tests for live/browser parity.

## Triage Note
This candidate comes from an upstream phoenix_test issue or PR and may already work in Cerberus.
If current Cerberus behavior already matches the expected semantics, add or keep the conformance test coverage and close this bean as done (no behavior change required).
